---
title: "bartleby the scrivener by melville"
summary: My plot summary
draft: false
---

*Bartleby the Scrivener* is a first-person short story about bossing a man who refuses to do anything. After failing numerous times, the narrator manages to rid himself of the impotent Bartleby though not really by choice because he's kind of impotent himself. The characters remain static throughout. Bartleby, Turkey, and Nippers are scriveners and Ginger Nut is an secretary, all employed under the narrator, a lawyer. It is the narrator who changes tactics in how he deals with Bartleby.

Everyone works in Wall Street. It's described like a prison. When you peer out the windows in the office, there are more walls to stare at. The narrator introduces himself as unambituous and then introduces Turkey, Nippers, and Ginger Nut and describes the value they bring to his business. Turkey, an old, fat man is productive before noon but drunk and sloppy after. Nippers, a fidgety, mean man with recurring diarrhea is sometimes industrious and pleasant. Ginger Nut, a young boy, brings everyone ginger nut cakes and does other errands.

The workload increases over time due to the arrival of secret documents, so the narrator hires Bartleby. Bartleby stays in the office the entire day and produces constant, consistent output. However, his personality causes the narrator to feel consternation when the narrator realizes he refuses to do anything other than copy. For context, there is more to being a scrivener than copying documents. Sometimes, you have to fetch papers or read out what a fellow scrivener is copying for verification. But Bartleby'd say, "I'd prefer not to" in response to any asks and would proceed to do nothing.

My memory lost the order of things in the middle of the story but generally the narrator tried sundry things to control Bartleby without using force. He scales Bartleby's level of insolence by asking him to do or answer increasingly trivial matters but Bartleby doesn't budge. By the way, I think it's a plot hole that the narrator hired Bartleby. Did he just hire him without an interview? Anyways, like how the narrator talks about the other characters, he accentuates what positive traits Bartleby has, like Bartleby's unwaveringly honesty, and eventually acquiesces an unfair workplace, one where he asks only Turkey, Nippers, and Ginger Nut for favors. This is not without increasingly rare spasmodic paroxysms to which Bartleby responds like he always does. The anger outbursts happen because the narrator realizes Bartleby controls him. The narrator also attempts to use Turkey and Nippers' peer pressure to get Bartleby to act. Turkey expresses his desire to punch Bartleby. Nippers wants Bartleby gone. The narrator eventually pities Bartleby, noticing his forlorness. Attempting to enter the workplace on a weekend and stunned that Bartleby was half-naked there and locked him out, the narrator returns after Bartleby's gone and goes through his stuff, realizing he lives there, sleeps on a couch and feasts entirely off ginger nuts. The narrator attempts to understand if the ginger nut could be the cause of Bartleby's character but discards this with some irrational reasoning that ginger is spicy and Bartleby's not energetic. The narrator also reasons that if he were to fire Bartleby, Bartleby would be exploited elsewhere.

However, Bartleby suddenly refuses his scribe duties. The narrator invents an excuse for him. He must not be able to see with his opaque eyes. However, after a few days, Bartleby's eyes return to normal, but Bartleby continues his obstreperousness. He then asks Bartleby to leave with detailed instructions. Confusing Bartleby's honesty with potency, he shocks only himself when he fails to predict Bartleby will leave. He gets pissed to the point of wanting to kill Bartleby but a reminder of the Ten Commandments prevents him from doing so. The narrator has convinced me that he poorly reasons and self-deceives.

Succumbing to Bartleby's inaction himself, he reasons that Bartleby's no harm. However, his clients who come to the office are repulsed by Bartleby which damages his reputation. He also notices that Turkey and Nippers are infected with using the word "prefer". The growing consequences force the narrator to finally move his office to another building. Imagine if Bartleby followed. But Bartleby tethored himself to the old building. This causes reputational harm to nearby offices, and because the narrator was the last one close to Bartleby, he is brought in to convince Bartleby to leave. But after trying to bribe or reason with Bartleby, he escapes the world on a vacation, trying to hide from anything to do with Bartleby.

When he returns, he learns Bartleby was forcibly removed by the police. He's dragged into the trial where he annoyingly paints Bartleby in good faith, but Bartleby ends up being imprisoned as a vagrant. As a consequence, people begin to think of the narrator as Bartleby's friend. In accordance with his social role, he pays a fee for upgrading Bartleby's prison dinners but Bartleby dies of a hunger strike. It's then revealed posthumously Bartleby was employed by the Dead Letter Office before being laid off. Employees there would intercept, dispose of, and sometimes keep souvenirs sent to dead people.
