---
title: "burnout society by byung-chul han"
summary: Book notes
draft: false
---

## Summary

Contrasting the toxic positivity of the 21st century, the Cold War marked clear boundaries between the Other vs. Same. The tiniest of ideas crossing imaginary boundaries were rejected like an immune system defending against a virus. The 21st century no longer marks boundaries, which have been broken down by excess consumption. The news, traditionally the ideological enforcer of boundaries, is vestigial as their perceived threats have downgraded to annoyances. Toxic positivity cannot be modeled immunologically as it's violent but not hostile. It flexes its force in an invisible way because it's immanent in the system. Moreover, overproduction, overachievement, and overcommunication do not provoke strong immunological responses but rather rejection. Depression, ADHD, and burnout are symptoms of the ego overheating from the Same exposure.

Contrasting the free-to-achieve-as-much-as-possible auto-exploitation society of today, the 20th century and prior hinged on allo-exploitation, or the exploitation of one by another. Because discipline is only so effective, to maximize and accelerate productivity, society began to ask for favors via Can vs. Should. Depression results when one defines their own success and fails to meet it. One's burnt-out mentality of "nothing is possible" contrasts toxic positivity's "nothing is impossible".

Savage animals concentrate on chaos to survive. They are not capable of higher thinking. Toxic positivity, not filtering stimuli, regresses society to animality. Though boredom is how momentous strides in culture were advanced, like for example, someone bored of walking discovered dancing, we seek to eliminate boredom at any cost. Modern gaming produces rushes of dopamine which, over time, feel similar. In contrast, deep contemplation feels new each time. Hyperfixation on achieving instead of immersing is also ironically making society less productive. To achieve, one must verify what they learn. Pervasive, incessant skepticism hampers our ability to focus. Finally, a way in which we find meaning in our lives is through a sense of narrative, like how we inaccurately remember and describe histories. The sense of continuity diminishes as we ahistoricize.

The great Roman orator, Cicero, absolutizes the vita contemplativa. Heidegger and Arendt instead praise the vita activa: Heidegger, restrictingly, because of memento mori, and Arendt, freeingly, because of the miracle of natality. But she notes the rise of animal laborans or beasts of burden ruining the full potential of vita activa by concentrating the activa on mindless laboring. Animal laborans, she hypothesizes, have emergent properties, for the concentration of animal laborans acting collectively appears as a single organism viewed far away enough. However, her anticipation of the emergence of animal laborans does not hold true in achievement society. Though the ubiquity of animal laborans was predicted correctly, the animal laborans are individualist rather than collectivist. The modern animal laborans is hyper anxious instead of obedient. They lack religion and an explanation for thanatotechnics, or techniques to cope with death, so as Nietzsche saw, they're hypochondriacs having lost other meanings of life. The preservation of life has become quasi-religious. As modern individuals lose the capacity for vita contemplativa, abundant neuroses arise which cannot be explained by the psychoanalysis predicated on the repression of disciplinary society.

Nietzsche formulates three ingredients for learning: seeing, thinking, and speaking/writing. Contemplative seeing is limited by toxic positivity when it can't delay subsequent thinking and action. The inability to delay implies the inability to sense or filter simuli. Our perceptions wouldn't make sense and any attention we'd have would be constantly interrupted. One consequence of incessant interruptions is the inability to form emotions that require prolonged interruption, like rage, leading news to be obscolescent. Another is the rise of the impotent human, that is, the human who cannot act. Impotency is not negative potency or the conscious decision to not do something. Negative potency is correlated with delayed gratification or religiosity. Impotence may be the result of burnout with the absolutization of positive potency representing hyperactivity, which when phrased this way, shows how far from freedom hyperactivity actually is.

The author of Moby Dick, Herman Melville, also wrote Bartleby. Bartleby's about an impotent beast of burden working for Wall Street. His catchphrase is "I would prefer not to", which is his entire character. The impotency Bartleby has is not resulting from the burnout of modern achievement society but rather one of disciplinary society. Wall Street at this time emphasizes the Wall, so toxic individualism doesn't apply. One can call his condition melancholia, which is what depression used to be called. Agamben ontotheologically argues that Bartleby's innocence of action ranks him among the holiest of men because of his potential for anything from having done Nothing, but Agamben ignores Bartleby's neurasthenia and confuses negative potency with impotency. Contrasting Bartleby is Kafka's Hunger Artist, who with negative potency, chooses to die of hunger.

The fringes of achievement society have been experimenting with nootropics. In popular culture, coffee is a milder, safer form of intelligence enhancement. The withdrawal of such substances lead to the acceleration of tiredness and exhaustion. Handke describes two types of tiredness: one of positivity and one of negativity. The positivity tiredness is an I-tiredness that says, "I am tired of you", which results from excessive positive potency. The negativity tiredness is a vita contemplativa characteristic, a we-tiredness that says, "I am tired with you", and "more of less of me" that inspires negative potency.

I-tiredness can also be defined as ego exhaustion. The Freudian ego is tamed by the superego, but superegoes have no repressive power in achievement societies; they seem to have transformed into an ego ideal. The presence of the superego rewards, so on the absence of the superego, one feels empty even after achieving. The superego also appears through the form of another person, so the modern individualist, narcissistic person will not have one. Narcissists blur the Self and the Other by comparing the two and absorbing the Other's identity in their Self. In their quest to find their identities, the narcissistic individuals achieve over and over without closure.

Freud defines character or personality as the conscious decision of the ego to not form an object-cathexis in the id. In people considered "nice" who genuinely are so, the ego never decides to exclude. Such people are stem cells who can produce in any context, the apex of achievement society. However, they are the pathological subjects of the burnout society. Depression and ADHD result from ego exhaustion.

Because of constant object-cathexes, repression and the chunk of the unconscious associated with it no longer exist in achievement society. For example, Schreber harbored a complex, Scientology-sounding delusion, which Freud interpreted to have begun by repressed homosexuality, but now that being gay is allowed, Schreber's delusions would've been obsolete. The reality principle also forces the superego to restrain the ego, but that too has diminished effect due to the increasing role of the Internet in reality, from where the ego is allowed complete freedom. Modern depression is also not a repression of conflict that obscures the statuses of relationships, a theory of Ehrenberg's, because repression doesn't exist today.

Looking at the history of depression on Wikipedia, it'd seem depression was documented in history before achievement society formed. However, depression used to be called melancholia. The distinction between the two is melancholia is a negative condition caused by the severing of the Other. However, depression is an impotent condition where the connection between the self and the Other never existed. According to Schmitt, depression represents the democratic "lack of conclusive power of decision" to ensure gratification. To Ehrenberg, depression is the "exhaustion caused by the constant need to take initiative" which "resulted from the decline of conflict on which the self was founded." Depression also takes on characteristics of violence through auto-aggression when the ego wars and exploits itself to achieve the ego ideal.

The homo sacer is an outcast where anyone can kill them without suffering punishment. The sovereign, a superset of the rulers of society, invented this concept. Agamben thinks the homo sacer and sovereign are two separate entities, where the homo sacer is an unusual exception. He also thinks violence is exceptional. But according to the achievement society model, the homo sacer and the sovereign are the same individual. The homo sacer is normalized and totalized with the sovereign. Violence is also predominantly positive resulting from consensual decisions.

The finishing quote speaks for itself: "the modern homo sacer is too alive to die and too dead to live."

## Observations

The book is short. I assume Han anticipated my low attention span and to induce my state of contemplating, he wrote less. Nice anticipation.

Though some technology analogies don't generalize well, like the gaming and autist computer metaphors, the book otherwise logically makes sense with my experiences. I feel considerable overlap between it and The Culture of Narcissism, especially with the two's opinions on hypochondriacs. When the meaning of life strips bare, the remaining goddess is of Health. The Culture of Narcissism also goes more into depth about what used to form the meaning of our lives, like sports and competition, than this book.

I also read none of the sources referenced or criticized in the book aside from Schreber's case, so I have a lot to explore. Despite my inexperience, I can't help but feel the resulting prescription of this book is just the cliche of "setting boundaries", which was why it wasn't stated. Instead of building isolated islands of unrelated achievements, like what one would do to get into college, get a job, or impress a woman, setting pride-agnostic expectations easily changed by doses of reality and forming long-term goals with an overarching narrative could in theory mitigate internal warring, though this is easier said than done.

The book also implicitly implores you to not rely completely on yourself and to strive for deep observation and thinking. To large degrees I agree with this, but auto-exploitation, when done correctly, is a humbling reminder of the manual labor needed to keep your life livable. Solely using vita contemplativa is also not realistic for STEM until after the hard work of internalizing material is completed.

If achievement society were to always strive for optimal productivity, wouldn't it self-correct for burnout and depression? It seems the corporate world is in its incipient stages of doing so today with promotions of therapy and work-life-balance. If these solutions to burnout were totally effectual, I have the sinking feeling depression would still be prevalent.

That is because the core issue of excess positivity remains. Therapy, unfortunately, invites excess positivity. Therapists can never reproach but at worst, strengthen lazy seeing and thinking. Due to their constraints, they enable narcissists. In addition, in a world where we seek to differentiate ourselves from competitors, we gatekeep niches and lose interest in what's popular, which makes connecting with strangers difficult. When we withdraw, we are more likely to be victims of excess positivity and lazy reasoning. The likelihood fluctuates depending on one's personality, libidinal energy and awareness to properly control recommendation systems. Finally, the ego ideal is a high-achieving person. The ego swipes left on friendships not matching the ego ideal, isolating the modern person more. The Internet has also consciously gamified achieving with Internet points, views, or respect. The coupling of achieving with respect is difficult to untangle, especially since that's how social media determines the insightfulness of comments without the invention of Natural Language Processing systems that understand.
