---
title: "walk 1"
summary: Expansion on thoughts from a walk
draft: false
---

Inflation is forcing consumer good prices to increase but paradoxically people are still spending their money. This is causing the Fed to increase rates. A theory of r/investing on why this is happening is the pandemic payouts disproportionately benefited the middle and upper middle class which still have money left to spend. Another theory is most people are employed and we need a recession to stop inflation. Yet another is people are maxing out their credits because it's useless to save for the future if the Fed keeps hiking rates. Intuitively the second seems the most likely. I'm sure by the first reason most people would've spent their couple thousands already and they aren't selling the houses they bought when interest rates were low to now buy new ones. The third reason also doesn't feel correct as that mindset is irresponsible but it'd need a degree of control for one to survive that long. It'd also signal a significant shift in attitude which I haven't felt in my Internet nor real life circle.

I don't know much about investing or economics. While I should change that to take advantage of a potential extremistan event, I wonder whether we can combat inflation by studying the history of language or the word market. Every time a new generation is born they want to invent their own jargon to separate themselves from their parents. I relate the change in jargon to the increase in prices of goods because the more people use the jargon the more it becomes the standard, just like the more people buy a good at its higher price the more that price becomes the standard. So also, population growth may be a driver in inflation. But more importantly, the core set of words in English for writing have remained unchanged during my lifetime ostensibly. Only colloquial descriptions of sex positions and other vulgarities do there seem to be changes every month. This is due to uniform teaching of writing in school and our informal teacher, the Internet, who writes in the prosaic style we're used to. So perhaps to combat inflation, credit card companies need to enforce a hard limit and not allow people to take on any debt and not allow people to spend more than 1/3 their income each month. There needs to be some kind of systematic enforcement. This will be too harsh on lower income folks so perhaps this needs to be enforced on middle or the upper middle class.

In my quest to improve my memory because I'm aware of my paucity of it and its exponential benefits, I realized that if every car were the same shape and size, it'd make cars boring but the concept of a car much easier to remember. But because we live in an individualistic world, where we're free to do whatever we want, a car enthusiast needs to learn all the colors and wheels and shapes to be able to describe cars. Those differences are also useless information except for differentiating the cars from each other. So this bullshit individuality is sort of a metaphor for our society in general which is rampant narcissism. I feel narcissism is the desire to be different so narcissists become different in ways that don't matter. I also feel that narcissism results in bureaucracy because it takes more brain latency to recall each difference and each difference invents dumb problems.

Recalling my day daily on a walk is one thing Quora claimed dramatically improved someone's memory. Whenever I try I find my recollection of the day rather hazy like I'm living life in a dream-like state. Another thing to improve memory, this one instead of my own invention, is verbally saying Anki answers. I find it helps measure my brain latency and can help better my social skills. Measuring brain latency is possible when I record myself. It hurts to watch how long it really takes me to recall what I perceive as easy. I'm convinced I'm much slower than the normal person and that's why I can't make any friends. It also hurts to see that whenever I'm recalling anything, my eyes shut and flutter and it literally looks like I'm acting out the blinking sound of a computer.

I've long internalized that I don't have many interests and I lack friends. However, I now have an interest in writing, specifically in articulating myself better and finding smart people to talk about complex ideas with. But, echoing some variation of a Tweet I've seen in the past, being too straightforward about my intentions to make friends will often make me find the wrong people. I believe if I take the straightforward approach, I may find people willing to help me articulate better, but I will also be in a space where it's easy for others to get help as well. So that'll mean the people I really want to hang out with will have limited bandwidth and there won't be enough room to develop a deeper relationship with them because of the competition. So, I'll need to go an indirect route where such mentors are plentiful and mentees for my particular interest are scarce.

Finally, I believe there needs to be a new graphical way to describe characters. Taking Bartleby the Scrivener by Melville for example, Turkey is described as someone who is a different personality periodically. Before noon, he's tame. After noon, he is florid. The low complexity of the character, described in a graph, may be the fact that it's difficult to describe character personality shifts via a Markov chain without expending at least a multiple pages.

Usually I read over my writing like 50 times to smooth out mistakes. I'm going to take the visakanv approach and edit this just once because I don't have time. Plus, I made it my semi new year's resolution to desire to get things right the first time. Tangential to that desire, I have an irksome habit of realizing I make typoes and comprehension mistakes because my brain was too relaxed any first attempt at reading or writing. So at work I'm self-conscious that I'm always editing my Slack messages.